Okay,
goes welcome back Now,
the first workbook event that we're going to look at is the workbook sheet.
Activate.
So from Excel,
I'm gonna hit Olsen F 11 And here in our Project Explorer,
we can see all the objects that are currently associated with the open workbook.
If you can't see your project Explorer,
just come up to view and choose projects Explorer here Now these are all the objects and
what we're going to be looking at in the first part of this section is this'll workbook.
So double click this workbook.
OK,
so you now have an empty coding window.
Now,
when we've written subroutines in normal modules up to this point,
they always follow a specific syntax.
We say sub or private sub,
we call them whatever we want obeying the naming rules on we hit.
Enter on.
The little brackets are automatically put in an end.
Sub is automatically put in now with workbook events on worksheet event serous a specific
syntax that we have to follow now.
Luckily,
we don't have to remember this because the visual basic editor is going to write it for us
automatically.
So the first thing we're going to do because we're looking at the work book events and
we're in this workbook.
We're going to come up to this area here,
and if I hover over,
you can see that it saves object on.
What we need to do here is select the object.
So I'm just conflict the little down arrow and you can see because we're in this workbook,
we only have the option to choose workbooks.
I'm just going to select workbook on what the VB is done automatically has written the
shell of our code and it is assumed we want a workbook opens.
That's probably the most common event will come to that one of that later on.
Okay,
now,
leaving that there,
otherwise we're gonna have to re select it.
I'm gonna guy due to this little drop down box here,
which is the procedure box.
And if we click in here,
we can see that we have absolutely loads of different events that we could trigger a code
upon.
So the one we're gonna look at here is thes sheet activate.
So I'm just gonna left click sheet,
activate and you can see that again.
The visual basic answer is written the shell of the code.
Don't worry about the specifics of all of this or we're going to do is write the code that
we want to run in between these lines.
So now I've added the sheet activate I can safely delete the workbook open.
Okay,
So here is where we're working.
And all we're gonna do is we're gonna display a simple message box on the message box is
going to say you just selected Onda space on board End quotes on DWhite.
Shall we say the active shoot don't may,
And that will do it.
Active sheet docked.
Rips dot name.
Oops.
There's that.
I haven't closer brackets active sheet that name.
So we build looking catenary string you just selected with space at the end on whatever the
active sheet name is.
Fantastic.
Now all we need to do flip back to excel and notice what happens because we're on the
workbook sheet.
Activate whenever we click on a different cheese.
There you go.
You get this little message box that pops up that says you just selected random day to set
.
Okay.
And if I click on here,
uh,
you just selected workbooks sheets activate.
And here's the code that we've just written on.
Similarly,
with any of these,
you'll automatically get this little.
Okay,
you'll get this little message box pop up and tell you precisely which she you just
selected.
Now,
as we're going through this,
I'm gonna delete the code that we want.
Otherwise,
we will be getting workbook events triggered left,
right and centre,
and it's going to drive you mad.
Okay,
so we've just reading some really simple code displaying a simple message box in between
the private sub in the end sub.
But your code can be a sophisticated you want it to be.
So whatever code you want to execute,
you just add it in here.
OK?
I'll see you in the next lecture.